The Watchtower  from which our comments
are taken is November 2018,
and the theme of the article was
“Are You Making
Jehovah’s Thoughts Your Own?”
Now, that’s a deep subject
—for imperfect humans
to make Jehovah’s thoughts our own.
The theme text is Romans 12:2.
You might want to look at that.
It’s a powerful verse.
There Paul wrote:
“Stop being molded by this system of things,
“[and then, on the other side of it]
“but be transformed
“by making your mind over,
“so that you may prove to yourselves
the good and acceptable
and perfect will of God.”
What’s he saying?
Basically, he’s telling us
to let God’s thoughts become ours.
It’s interesting because,
in spite of the great advancement
in technology and in higher education,
look at the world’s wisdom
and what it’s produced
—injustice, unrest,
illicit sex, abuse of drugs.
We could go on and on
about the disastrous consequences
that that’s produced.
First Corinthians reminds us in chapter 1
that “a foolish thing of God
is wiser than men,
and a weak thing of God
is stronger than men.”
Well, that’s a principle,
and we all believe that.
But that means that every one of us
has a personal responsibility
to work at being transformed
and to fight against
being molded by the world.
Now, Paul’s inspired admonition
is very direct.
He doesn’t say, ‘You may have to, you know,
sort of look at this carefully and stop.’
No.
He says to us, ‘Stop it!’
“Stop being molded by this system of things.”
Now, we have to be determined
to transform our minds
from human thinking to Jehovah’s.
That means we have to acknowledge
that the fact is that we’re all influenced
to some degree
by the spirit of the world.
We have to fight that.
We have our own imperfect inclination.
It takes determination.
And what he says there
as far as transformation is profound.
It touches every fiber of our thinking,
of our innermost attitudes,
our feelings, our inclinations
—things within us that no one else knows.
So it’s good for each one of us
to ask ourselves from time to time:
‘Are the changes that I’m making
‘only skin-deep,
‘what people can see,
‘or am I making adjustments deep within?
‘Is my mind influenced
‘more by my culture
than by Jehovah’s thinking?
‘Is my heart more influenced
because I’m American,
‘Canadian, Russian, British, Spanish,
‘black, white (whatever), Asian
than by being one of Jehovah’s Witnesses?’
Now, it’s easy to say,
“I am one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.”
But it’s not so easy to feel
the impact of that claim
within the depths
of our minds and our hearts.
Now, there’s nothing wrong
with being pleased with our culture
and some of the traditions
that come along with it.
It’s evident that Jehovah loves diversity,
and that’s a beautiful thing
in the human family.
But that should not determine
our attitude toward others
in our general line of thought.
Most importantly,
it shouldn’t diminish our determination
to reflect Jehovah’s way of thinking
rather than cultural
or this system of things.
So now, where we have to be careful
is when we’re studying.
Some of us were raised in the truth,
others were not,
and we all know that we have
to work to rid our minds of bad things.
That’s something that we do,
but it doesn’t stop there.
If we only rid our minds of bad things,
then Jesus, in Matthew chapter 12,
shows what could happen.
At Matthew chapter 12,
verses 43-45,
notice what he says:
“When an unclean spirit comes out of a man,
“it passes through waterless places
“in search of a resting-place
“and finds none.
“Then it says, ‘I will go back
to my house from which I moved,’
“and on arriving,
it finds the house unoccupied
[that is, of bad things]
but swept clean and adorned.”
But notice: “Then it goes
and takes along with it
“seven different spirits more wicked
“than itself,
“and after getting inside, they dwell there;
“and the final circumstances of that man
become worse than the first.”
What’s the thought?
We have to keep pondering,
thinking deeply,
meditating,
filling our minds on the things of God.
Otherwise, we can fall into the same snare
that those of the world do, even unwittingly.
In fact, we can really fall
into a dangerous position
of what is described at 1 Timothy 4:1,
where he calls out the world.
He says that it’s being misled
by “inspired statements
and teachings of demons.”
And never before have people
been so completely deluged
with emotionally charged
and misleading and distracting information.
You turn on the news—it’s hot with anger,
unrest,
lack of unity.
But pondering on Jehovah’s counsel
safeguards us from falling victim
—inside—
to “misleading inspired utterances
and teachings of demons.”
There’s a very interesting thought
that highlights the need
for meditation on God’s Word.
If you turn with me
or go to your iPads, your devices,
to Psalm 119,
in verses 10, 11,
notice it says: “With my whole heart
“[my whole heart] I seek you.
Do not let me stray from your commandments.”
Verse 11: “In my heart
“I treasure up your saying
so that I may not sin against you.”
Now, we constantly hear reminders
of the value
of really meditating on God’s Word.
Remember our midweek meeting part:
“Keep Feeding on Jehovah’s Reminders”
and the video with Brother Jackson,
Treasure Jehovah’s Reminders
—something we should consider
meditating on even further.
One final thought:
Look with me at a prayer that’s likely
all of ours at Isaiah 64:8
—Isaiah 64:8 says:
“But now, O Jehovah,
“you are our Father.
“We are the clay, and you are our Potter,
we are all the work of your hand.”
That’s something; that’s a privilege.
To make fine quality pottery,
a potter uses high-grade clay.
That’s you, because Jehovah
has picked out the precious things.
There are two things that he needs to do.
First, the clay needs to be washed
to remove any foreign material
or contamination.
Then, the clay must be mixed
with the right amount of water
and worked so that it will retain its shape
after being molded under pressure.
So water is used both
in the cleansing of the clay
and in giving it the right consistency.
Well, it’s similar with God’s Word in us.
Jehovah works on us
when we meditate and ponder on his Word.
The Bible helps us
to rid ourselves of impurities
and transforms us
into something valuable to Jehovah.
And what a privilege it is to be associated
with the valuable things of Jehovah!
The Bethel family worldwide is a microcosm
of a beautiful brotherhood
that Jehovah is shaping.
And may all of us be determined
to ponder over the thoughts of God
and to resist the influence of the world.